You know, just you're having your brussel sprouts with your,
with your elk meat or whatever, you know, I, I don't think it's a problem. Um,
so you know, it, I do get a little, I see, I see,
like you mentioned Dr. Sean Baker, he's like he put out a video about, like,
he mentioned me, my names talking about how I only talk about in vitro data.
And I'm like, dude,
go watch my video or my interview with the expert at John's Hopkins.
We're talking about human studies, right?
The in vitro data is coming from what the opposite that it, that you know,
that the damaging effects it's in vitro, Don, we get.
On a culture set. There's, there's two things going on. There's one,
there's a real cursory examination of data where they,
and then this confirmation bias and this,
the combination of the two of those things,
they find one thing that sort of kind of vaguely supports what they want it to
support.
And then they run with it and they talk about it as if they're experts very
dangerous. Yes.
And this is one of the reasons why I'm so happy that you are talking about this,
cuz you can give people a real comprehensive understanding of all the different
things at play.
And one of the things that I get from you when I talk to you about nutrition is
it's,
mindboggling how many different factors are going on
simultaneously in the human body when it comes to nutrition, absorption,
when it, you know, in the various stages of the body and,
and how it can vary with, with different people. I mean,
there's so much going on. Yeah.
So when someone just sorts talking about vegetables or toxic like,
oh Jesus Christ. <laugh> have you.
Read any of the study? Have you just go look at the scientific data? Like.
You know, but they want it to be toxic. This is what's crazy.
It's this is an ideology that's akin to veganism. It's really, it's a, it's a,
just another of the same mindset.
It's almost like a religious mindset. <laugh> they?
They there's this hashtag you said it. Not me. I did say it. Look,
I'm a meat eater. Yeah. I know you are like, you can't,
you can't accuse me of being anti meat, but I,
I side I eat more vegetables
I think, than eat meat.
I certainly it's certainly like right up there and I'm not giving them up.
I think that's stupid. Yeah. I just,
it doesn't make any sense to me and I like them, but there's this,
there's this weird push. And the, you know,
if you look under hashtag meat heels, there's all these people, you know,
telling these stories about how they lost all this weight and they did all this,
this blah, blah, blah, and their health benefits. And,
but they only want it to be because of the consumption of meat only.
They think that it's because of the singular aspect of their diet and the fact
that they've eliminated everything else, but they're not,
they don't do any studying of elimination diets.
They don't do any study of the along benefits of fasting and all these different
things that you're talking about, which I think are they're,
these are all factors in this really complicated thing that's going on
that most likely has something to do with their gut biome and their immune
system.
Right? Absolutely. I mean,
those are two major confounding factors, like so major,
you know, it's, um, it's important. It's just important to,
to approach this like a science, you know, mm-hmm <affirmative> and,
and not like a religion, like you said, where you wanna believe something.
And so you just find, you know, this,
this study that I also see circulating around that why plants are really bad to
eat. It's like, they're, they're they're they're mean insect,
the insect antinutrients are pesticides. Right, right.
It's from my former mentor. Okay.
Dr. Bruce Sims who spent his entire career like advocating micronutrients
from vegetables and from me and from fish. Okay. It's like so ironic.
But if you actually read the paper, not only does it say it doesn't, you know,
these, these insect anti feedin, like sulfur Reine don't cause cancer, but it,
it also goes,
it has a whole section on heterocyclic aiming from cooked meat.
So if you really wanna use that paper as an argument, why to not eat plants,
then maybe read the paper and realize, oh,
it's all also talking about heterocyclic aimings as well.
The point of the paper was like, I'm getting a little motion here. I'm sorry.
It's I'm sorry. Good. I like it. Um.
Getting outta your robot itself. Yeah.
The point of the paper was, um,
basically not to worry about like some of the amounts that you're being exposed
to with some of these natural, you know,
insect antied mm-hmm <affirmative> that are found in plants, um,
in some of the cook things and meat, and as well as some of the,
the pesticides that are found in synthetic passive sides,
basically that they're in such small amounts.
So that was kind of the point of the paper was back in the nineties. Um, and,
but I just think that it's a little, I don't know, hypocritical to use a paper,
you know, as a, as like, and literally it's like, I mean,
it's like proliferated every that's I see this paper all the time. Yes.
It's like, well, did you read the paper? Cuz it has a whole section on, um,
on the insect anti feeds from coffee,
which a lot of people drink mm-hmm <affirmative> and also from meat.
What, what there's that thing that people do where they do have a,
I have a joke about it in my act about, um, I read a sta a study that,
that, um, sperm can cure depression in women.
And I slammed my laptop shut and I didn't read another word. I'm like,
I found the cure <laugh> but this is,
this is what you read the title. Yeah. Yeah.
This is essentially what these people are doing. They, they,
they will read or oftentimes not don't even read,
but recite from someone else's reciting it in a video
who didn't read. Right. Which is what's going on with a lot of this stuff.
And this is what I'm concerned with. I keep seeing all these people like, Hey,
I'm gonna try the carnivore die. Hey, try the carnivore died. I'm telling you,
it's amazing. And I'm just sitting here shaking my head.
I'm like this isn't making any sense. Like I don't,
why would you want to eliminate a,
a massive source of bio available nutrients? Like, and,
and then when they're talking about the negative consequences of consuming
vegetables, that there's, you know, different sort of, um, toxic elements.
I do remember you talking about how these stressors can actually have a positive
and beneficial result when your body reacts to these stressors.
Yeah. That's exactly how exercise works. It's exactly how fasting works.
Exactly how heat stress from the so works. And it's how these phytochemicals,
um, I'm calling 'em phytochemical was just as like a generic, you know,
category mm-hmm <affirmative>, but there there're,
these they're compounds that are made by plants to ward off insects. Um, and,
and, uh,
and we evolved eating them and they activate amazing stress response pathways
in, in humans, in our brain, you know, in multiple in blood cells. I mean,
it's just human intervention trials showing this it, you know, you're,
you're gonna miss out. Like you're we evolved with,
we're supposed to be stressed by exercise, by fasting, doing the time,
restricted eating, like that's, we're supposed to do that.
And we're supposed to eat some plants.
I think they're trying to comp they're, they're trying to simplify something.
That's incredibly complicated and they're doing it with this sort of religious
fervor. This is, it's very strange. And I,
I can feel it when I talk about it, where people get upset,
they're getting upset at me. Like I'm criticizing Jesus or something.
It's I know it's very weird. And again, I'm not a vegan.
Right. I'm not a vegan either. I eat lots of meat. Yeah. You know,
I think you and I have had conversations about the importance of meat. Yeah.
So it's, well, it's, it's, it's a religious thing. It really is.
It's the same sort of mindset that allows people to get
just rapidly Republican or anything else,
like fill in the blanks, whatever it is, you know, look, there's a, there's a,
it's just a thing that people do.
There's for the long there's two different camps in jujitsu.
Wanna hear something crazy? Yeah. There's GE and Nogi a GE is the,
it's a kimono, this white, or, you know, multi,
you could wear different colors now, but it they'll start out with white. And,
um, a lot of people learn their jujitsu grabbing onto the GE you know,
like sort of a judo GE or, uh, you know,
karate gear and utilizing it as part of the grappling technique.
And then Nogi came along and what Nogi is, they use rash guards.
They don't grab the clothes and they concentrate on control of the body with
underhooks and over hooks and Gable grips and things along those lines.
And it became a religious battle between gee and Nogi.
And I remember sitting of watching this and it was a problem because like people
would get angry. Like, what camp are you in, bro? And I trained both.
I have a black belt in the GE. I have a black belt,
no GE I trained both of them. I think there's benefits to both of them.
But there was this weird thing where you were supposed to choose sides.
It's since alleviated and people realize how preposterous it is.
But for a time, like four years,
the jujitsu community was split where people were angry at people who were the
GE or angry at people who wore no GE like my friend, Eddie, Eddie, Bravo,
who teaches no GE people were angry at him for teaching a system of
jujitsu that didn't involve a certain type of clothing. It's the same mindset.
People just want you to believe what they believe only.
And they get RA about it. They get crazy.
And I'm seeing this with this carnivore diet.
And I think there's a psychological aspect of it to it that you were talking
about when, in terms of this placebo effect, then I think they,
they feel like I've never felt better. I'm on this carnivore diet,
I'm doing chin-ups and I'm running around the block. Like, especially.
When you read about everyone feeling better, it's.
It makes I want in, I want in, I want in, on this carnivore diet,
and then there's also, well,
if you are doing this as a opposed to the standard American diet,
I think you have the same sort of response that you have when people are talking
about the positive benefits of the vegan diet. I think if you have a PO,
if you have a vegan diet in comparison to eating chips and fries and soda, yeah.
You're gonna feel amazing. And.
People talk about it too. Just like they do the carni.
Vegans and they get, and they want you to do, I mean, there's,
I'm seeing the same patterns that I see with vegans where these carnivore people
are putting meat and their screen name, you know, um, meat eat, or Mike,
you know, carnivore Carl. They are crazy people.
They're doing the same thing the vegans do with like, I'm the vegan warrior.
I'm carnivore Carl, you know, you, you plant eating, poison, eating.
You don't even understand what you're doing to your body.
And then I'm getting there too, because I like plants. They're like, right.
Yeah. It's like, you get thrown in. Yeah. You can't, you have to pick a camp.
I'm not picking a.
Camp. I'm an omnivore.